add repometrics call for help technote (#1135)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2025-09-11-repometrics/index.md

---
title: Help us design a new git(hub) organizational dashboard
author: 
- Mark Padgham
date: '2025-09-11'
slug: repometrics-call-help
preface: |
  We at rOpenSci are developing an organizational dashboard to provide an overview of all rOpenSci code contributors and their repositories.
  We are seeking feedback and suggestions on an initial [prototype dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/).
tags:
  - package development
  - tech notes
params:
  doi: "10.59350/..."
---

We have developed an initial [prototype organizational dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/), providing insights into code contributors and their repositories, primarily in that instance for the three related GitHub organizations, [reconhub](https://github.com/reconhub), [epiverse](https://github.com/epiverse), and [epiverse-trace](https://github.com/epiverse-trace). 
These three organizations host open-source software for understanding and analysing epidemics.
We aim to develop the current prototype as both an organization-wide dashboard for rOpenSci, and also as a template for adoption and adaptation by other open-source organizations.

> ## Help design and develop our dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Help design and develop our dashboard!
```

We are seeking help in the further design and development of our [prototype organizational dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/).

> The primary aim is to help all people involved with, or interested in, rOpenSci, through providing an organization-wide overview of the state of our code repositories and of the community activity which sustains them.

Reviewer: since the example is about epidemics package, the goal focussed on "rOpenSci" is surprising.

## How to help?

Please help us by providing suggestions for any ways you think the [prototype organizational dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/) could be improved.
If you're a contributor to, or maintainer of, an R package, we'd particularly like to hear about any ways the dashboard could be made more useful for you.

> Please make comments either directly here, or via either [issues](https://github.com/ropensci-review-tools/orgmetrics/issues) or [discussions](https://github.com/ropensci-review-tools/orgmetrics/discussions/) in the [associated GitHub repository](https://github.com/ropensci-review-tools/orgmetrics).

Reviewer: I'd remove "here" honestly.

Reviewer: And simpler to just have a link to discussions. Worst case some people will use issues but in the post it'll be clearer if there's one destination.

Author: Yeah, i was worried about that - good suggestion, thanks!

> Read or search through existing issues or discussions first, to see whether your ideas have already been discussed, and then either start a new issue or discussion, or comment on existing ones.

Reviewer: I'd put this in the `CONTRIBUTING.md` but not here: this is usual etiquette and I don't think you have to worry about too much participation right now. Better have simple instructions here and handle some duplication in the repo if needed?

Want to give private feedback?

> No worries, email <mark@ropensci.org> directly, or if you happen to be a member of our slack group, send me a private message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No worries, email <mark@ropensci.org> directly, or if you happen to be a member of our [semi-open Slack workspace](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#channels), send me a private message.
```

But my advice would be: add the email but not the slack, so that people who are not in the slack workspace don't feel they're missing out.

---
title: Help us design a new Git(Hub) organizational dashboard
author: 
- Mark Padgham
date: '2025-09-11'
slug: repometrics-call-help
preface: |
  We at rOpenSci are developing an organizational dashboard to provide an overview of all rOpenSci code contributors and their repositories.
  We are seeking feedback and suggestions on an initial [prototype dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/).
tags:
  - package development
  - tech notes
params:
  doi: "10.59350/fa54c-v4n44"

---

We have developed an initial [prototype organizational dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/) which aims to provide insights into code contributors, their repositories, and maintenance status and needs.

> The prototype dashboard shows data for the three related GitHub organizations, [reconhub](https://github.com/reconhub), [epiverse](https://github.com/epiverse), and [epiverse-trace](https://github.com/epiverse-trace).

Author: Thanks @yabellini, I've revised the text pretty extensively now

These three organizations host open-source software for understanding and analysing epidemics.
We aim to develop the current prototype as both an organization-wide dashboard for rOpenSci, and also as a template for adoption and adaptation by other open-source organizations.

![](./repometrics-index.png)

> ![](./repometrics-pkg-network.png)

Author: updated with alt-text and caption, thanks

## Help design and develop our dashboard!

We are seeking help in the further design and development of our [prototype organizational dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/), both for the organizations featured there, and more generally for a planned rOpenSci-wide dashboard.
The primary aim is to help all people involved with, or interested in, either those epidemic-related organizations or rOpenSci, through providing an organization-wide overview of the state of code repositories and the community activity which sustains them.

## How to help?

Please help us by providing suggestions for any ways you think the [prototype organizational dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/) could be improved.
If you're a contributor to, or maintainer of, an R package, we'd particularly like to hear about any ways the dashboard could be made more useful for you.

> Please make comments either directly, or via or discussions in the [associated GitHub repository](https://github.com/ropensci-review-tools/orgmetrics/discussions).

Author: updated to
> Please make comments either in this blog post, or via discussions in ...

Hopefully that makes it clearer?

  We at rOpenSci are developing an organizational dashboard to provide an overview of all rOpenSci code contributors and their repositories.
  We are seeking feedback and suggestions on an initial [prototype dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/).
tags:
  - package development
  - tech notes
params:
  doi: "10.59350/fa54c-v4n44"
editor: 
- Maëlle Salmon
- Yanina Bellini Saibene
---

We have developed a prototype dashboard which aims to help organizations maintain complex systems of inter-dependent software components.
Our initial [prototype organizational dashboard](https://ropensci-review-tools.github.io/repometrics-demo/) provides insights into code contributors, their repositories, and maintenance status and needs.
The prototype dashboard shows data for the three related GitHub organizations, [reconhub](https://github.com/reconhub), [epiverse](https://github.com/epiverse), and [epiverse-trace](https://github.com/epiverse-trace), all of which develop and host open-source software for understanding and analysing epidemics.
We aim to develop the current prototype as a template for adoption and adaptation by other open-source organizations.

> {{< figure src = "repometrics-index.png" alt = "Screenshot of main prototype dashboard page." class = "pull-left" caption = "Organizational overview sections from main prototype dashboard page.">}}

Reviewer: We need to be careful about left/right https://github.com/ropensci/roweb3/issues/1066 but for that one this is ok. Leaving this note in case you want to include a screenshot that shows more of the dashboard @mpadge
